docs_src/gitbuch.asciidoc, before:

= Git: Distributed Version Control for Code and Documents
// Verteilte Versionskontrolle für Code und Dokumente
Valentin Haenel; Julius Plenz
:doctype: book
:revnumber: 3.0
:revremark: Beta
:lang: en
// Sections Numbering:
:sectnums:
:sectnumlevels: 5
// Cross References:
:idprefix:
:xrefstyle: full
:chapter-refsig: Ch.
:section-refsig: Sec.
:appendix-refsig: App.


include::gitbuch_custom-attributes.adoc[]

:leveloffset: +1

// "vorwort.txt"          ->  Preface
include::gitbuch_00.adoc[]

// "erste_schritte.txt"   ->  1. Introduction and First Steps
include::gitbuch_01.adoc[]

// "grundlagen.txt"       ->  2. The Basics
include::gitbuch_02.adoc[]

// "praxis.txt"           ->  3. Practical Version Control
include::gitbuch_03.adoc[]

// "advanced.txt"         ->  4. Advanced Concepts
include::gitbuch_04.adoc[]

// "remote.txt"           ->  5. Distributed Git
include::gitbuch_05.adoc[]

// "workflows.txt"        ->  6. Workflows
include::gitbuch_06.adoc[]

// "server.txt"           ->  7. Git Servers
include::gitbuch_07.adoc[]

// "automatisierung.txt"  ->  8. Git Automation
include::gitbuch_08.adoc[]

// "zusammenspiel.txt"    ->  9. Interacting with Other Version Control Systems
include::gitbuch_09.adoc[]

// "shell.txt"            ->  10. Shell-Integration
include::gitbuch_10.adoc[]

// "github.txt"           ->  11. GitHub
include::gitbuch_11.adoc[]

// "installation.txt"     ->  App. A. Installation
include::gitbuch_12.adoc[]

// "gitdir.txt"           ->  App. B. Repository Structure
include::gitbuch_13.adoc[]

:leveloffset: 0

// EOF //

Commit message:

Enter Beta Stage
Development now moves to the new `dev-beta` branch (see #22).
Add admonition in book Preamble, explaining that the book in in Beta
preview, provide summary info and a link to repository.

docs_src/gitbuch.asciidoc, after:

= Git: Distributed Version Control for Code and Documents
// Verteilte Versionskontrolle für Code und Dokumente
Valentin Haenel; Julius Plenz
:doctype: book
:revnumber: 3.0
:revremark: Beta Preview
:lang: en
// Sections Numbering:
:sectnums:
:sectnumlevels: 5
// Cross References:
:idprefix:
:xrefstyle: full
:chapter-refsig: Ch.
:section-refsig: Sec.
:appendix-refsig: App.

include::gitbuch_custom-attributes.adoc[]

// Preamble

================================================================================
[WARNING]
===============================
This document is still in Beta version, but fully translated; so enjoy reading it and leave us some feedback on how we might improve it.

This is the English translation of
http://gitbu.ch[_Das Git-Buch_^, title="Visit the Git-Buch website"]
(The Git Book) by
https://github.com/esc[Valentin Haenel^]
and
https://github.com/Feh[Julius Plenz^],
released under the
https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/4.0/[CC BY-NC-SA 4.0^, title="Learn morea bout the Creative Common BY-NC-SA 4.0 license"]
license.

We're currently proofreading and polishing the entire text, and fixing some styling and formatting issues.
Any help with proofreading is much appreciated; if you wish to contribute submit your changes via pull request on the `beta-dev` branch of the project repository:

* https://github.com/tajmone/Git-Buch_EN
===============================
================================================================================

:leveloffset: +1

// "vorwort.txt"          ->  Preface
include::gitbuch_00.adoc[]

// "erste_schritte.txt"   ->  1. Introduction and First Steps
include::gitbuch_01.adoc[]

// "grundlagen.txt"       ->  2. The Basics
include::gitbuch_02.adoc[]

// "praxis.txt"           ->  3. Practical Version Control
include::gitbuch_03.adoc[]

// "advanced.txt"         ->  4. Advanced Concepts
include::gitbuch_04.adoc[]

// "remote.txt"           ->  5. Distributed Git
include::gitbuch_05.adoc[]

// "workflows.txt"        ->  6. Workflows
include::gitbuch_06.adoc[]

// "server.txt"           ->  7. Git Servers
include::gitbuch_07.adoc[]

// "automatisierung.txt"  ->  8. Git Automation
include::gitbuch_08.adoc[]

// "zusammenspiel.txt"    ->  9. Interacting with Other Version Control Systems
include::gitbuch_09.adoc[]

// "shell.txt"            ->  10. Shell-Integration
include::gitbuch_10.adoc[]

// "github.txt"           ->  11. GitHub
include::gitbuch_11.adoc[]

// "installation.txt"     ->  App. A. Installation
include::gitbuch_12.adoc[]

// "gitdir.txt"           ->  App. B. Repository Structure
include::gitbuch_13.adoc[]

:leveloffset: 0

// EOF //
